Iberia: Minecraft Made Harder
====================

The philosophy of Iberia is to make Minecraft harder in ways that respect the vanilla Minecraft
experience, enhance gameplay, encourage more experiences that are available in the game, and add
a dose of reality without making it too "grindy".

Challenges
----------

### Hard Stone

*What is it?*

Hard stone is any of the stone types (stone, andesite, diorite, granite) that has been surrounded
by a compressing block on all six sides. Blocks that compress stone include stone itself, dirt, 
and bedrock. Hard stone takes ten times as long to mine, unless you're using a diamond pickaxe.
Once a block of stone has been surrounded by compressing blocks, it will convert to hard stone in
about the same time as it takes for wheat to grow one stage. Likewise, hard stone will convert
back to stone after it's been un-surrounded in the same amount of time. 

[See it in action](http://imgur.com/a/9ognN)

*How do I deal with it?*

In the early game, you'll need to go caving for stone and for ores. Mining is just going to take
too long. In the later game, your diamond pickaxe will open up the ability to do branch mining.

### Sleep to Heal

*What is it?*

Vanilla natural regeneration is just too fast to be challenging. Disabling it entirely makes the 
game harder, but doesn't give you any way to recover from injuries until you can eat a golden
apple or make potions of healing. "Sleep to heal" allows you to slowly recover from injuries by
sleeping. Each time you sleep and wake naturally, you can heal up to one heart as long as you are
not hungry at all.

[See it in action](http://imgur.com/a/i01Xy)

*How do I deal with it?*

Without natural regeneration, in the early game you can make sure you're well fed, and then sleep
through the night to recover from injuries. You'll still want to be very careful not to get hurt,
because losing half your hearts will require a full 50 minutes of gameplay (plus food and a bed)
to recover back to full health. 

### Slow Crafting When Armored

*What is it?*

When wearing armor, your access to chests, crafting tables, enchanting tables, furnaces,
dispensers, hoppers, droppers, potion stands, and beacons will be slowed down. The slowdown is a
delay that shows up when first accessing the object. The slowdown is greatest with full diamond
armor, and non-existent with no armor. While waiting for access, you can still cancel out by
pressing ESC.

*How do I deal with it?*

The best way to deal with it is to wear no armor or light armor when doing lots of crafting work.
This encourages protecting the areas where you will be doing crafting with barriers and lighting.
It also means you'll want to easily put on and take off armor. To allow for that, you can now hold
down SHIFT while right clicking an armor stand to swap the armor on the stand with the armor that
you are wearing.

### Reduced Debug Info

*What is it?*

Reduced debug info is a game rule that turns off "cheaty" info on the debug screen. So, with this
on, you won't be able to find your location, the direction you are facing, the biome you're in, 
the light level, the local difficulty, or what you're looking at from the F3 debug screen. 

[See it in action](https://imgur.com/a/6irIP)

*How do I deal with it?*

You're going to need to use in-game tools for keeping track of where you are, and getting around.
Maps, compasses, and markers that you build in your world are all tools for knowing where you are
and where you are headed. The sun can be used to find your direction. You're on your own to be
careful about light levels and local difficulty.
